Guardian 1.7
  1. Rewrote the syslog parsing routine. Now it should work on just about
     any syslog/snortlib version (As long as the attacker's ip address comes
     first. It is also much cleaner, and from some tests, seems to be a 
     hair faster.
  2. Also fixed a bug which caused guardian not to catch portscans reported
     by snort.

Guardian 1.6.3 (never officially released)
  1. Added support for watching for more than one IP address. To do this,
     a new option has been added to the guardian.conf file:
   
TargetFile /etc/guardian.target

     The file should contain a list of IP addresses which are local IP 
     addresses. The format is the same as the IgnoreFile. This is useful 
     for people who are hosting several IP addresses from one machine. 
     It might also be useful for poeple who are running snort/guardian on a
     firewall. 

     This will also only place a block on the interface which is defined in
     the guardian.conf ..

Guardian 1.6.2
  1. Support added for syslog rotation. Previously, guardian would not reopen
     the syslog file if it got rotated. This does not mean that there is 
     support for rotating the guardian log itself. This will be supported 
     in a future version. 
  2. Added block/unblock script for ipfwadm (useful for older linux kernels)
  3. Bug fixes. Thanks to brian@unearthed.org for pointing them out. 

  Next release will have a revamped syslog parser, since I am really not 
  with the current setup, and it doesn't seem to work for everyone. 

Guardian 1.6.1

  1. Added scripts for ipfwadm for linux
  2. Fixed syslog parsing for newer snortlibs (while will get revamped in the
     next release)

Guardian 1.6
Changes:

  1. Now calls an external script for blocking ip addresses.
  2. TimeLimit feature
  3. Cleanup at exit


1. Guardian is now more modular than ever. When it decides to block an IP 
ip address, it calls a script called "guardian_block.sh" . I have included
several sample scripts in the scripts directory of the Guardian package. 
The biggest benifit of this is that now you can have this script do whatever 
you like, from paging you, sending you email, or even to launch a 
counterattack (although I do not support or encourage such actions). 

The "guardian_block.sh" script must exist in your path. If it does not, 
then guardian will exit, and tell you what you need to do. 

2. The TimeLimit feature is designed to keep down the number of hosts actively
being blocked. To use it, add a line in your guardian.conf file that has the 
time in seconds you want to block a host for. If this line does not exist, it 
will default to 99999999 seconds, which effectivly turns off this feature.
For this feature, you will also need a "guardian_unblock.sh" script in your 
path. See the scripts directory for example unblock scripts. If this feature
is enabled, and the script does not exist, you will probably see a performance
impact. This will be addressed in a future release of guardian. 

3. When guardian exits (via a kill command), it will clear all the blocked 
addresses. 


----------------------------------------------------------------------------
FAQ:
1. What is guardian?
2. Blocking based on IDS results? What about false positives?
3. Are there any risks with running this?
4. How do I set it up?

1. What is guardian? 

Guardian is a security tool which will issue commands to the OS to block
ip addresses which attacks may be coming from. Guardian requires an IDS 
(Intrusion detection system), and currently only works with snort. Future 
releases will work with other systems. 

2. Blocking based on IDS results!? What about false positives?

The idea behind guardian is that it's better to be safe than sorry. It also
assumes that you know how to configure the IDS so that false positives are 
minimized. Guardian also has a list of ip addresses which should not be blocked.
This list is user definable. The filename is called "guardian.ignore". More on 
that later.

3. Are there any risks with running this?

Yes, there are risks.. The biggest risk is misconfiguration and false positives.
If you don't have a good ignore list, chances are really good that an host will
get blocked that you didn't want blocked. Most common (in my experence) is 
nameservers getting blocked. Running guardian on a system with DHCP can be 
tricky as well, since your IP address, name servers, gateway, etc can change
without you knowing. 

4. How do I set it up?

The first thing you need to do is install and run an IDS. Guardian currently
supports only snort (www.snort.org). If you are wanting to run guardian, I
HIGHLY suggest you run snort for about a week, and see how many rules generate
false positives. You will want to remove the rules which generate a lot of
noise, since currently, guardian will block every IP address that generates an
alert.

Btw, another future enhancement is to take advantage to the severity levels in
the snort alerts. But for now, we won't deal with them.

Now that snort is running and you are comfortable with the alerts it is
generating, it's time to set up guardian.

First, edit the guardian.conf file. Everything in there is documented. When 
you are done, copy this file to /etc .. Now create /etc/guardian.ignore (or
whatever you called the guardian ignore file in the guardian.conf). A good 
start of stuff to add to the guardian.ignore file is your DNS servers, your 
gateway (although this is done magicly anyways), and any other servers which
you know access your machine.

The next thing to do is copy guardian.pl to it's final location. I use 
/usr/local/bin, but you can use anything you want. Then you need to install
the block and unblock scripts. There are examples in the scripts directory, 
which should be usable if you have ipchains or iptables. Otherwise, you will
need to write your own script. Check the main guardian web page for added
block and unblock scripts. The block script must be named "guardian_block.sh",
and the unblock must be named "guardian_unblock.sh" .. These scripts must 
exist in your path. 

That should be just about everything. Run guardian with the following command:

# guardian.pl -c /etc/guardian.conf

This tells guardian to use /etc/guardian.conf as it's configuration file. 

You should probably put that command in your system startup files.. 
